This is a line without a special char at the end.
This is a line with a space at the end. 
This is a line with multiple spaces at the end.       
This is a line with a tab at the end.	
This is a line with an umlaut at the end.ä
This is a line with an umlaut and a space at the end.ä 
This is a line with an umlaut and a tab at the end.ä	
From This is a line with From at the beginning.
.This is a line with a dot at the beginning.
-This is a line with a dash at the beginning.

This is a very long line (ä ) which just happens to be wrapped so that a From appears at the beginning of the second line. Furthermore, this break. makes a dot appear as the first character on the third line.

Just long enough: xxxxxxxx This is a line without a special char at the end.
Just too long: xxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line without a special char at the end.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line without a special char at the end.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line without a special char at the end.

Just long enough: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a space at the end. 
Just too long: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a space at the end. 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a space at the end. 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a space at the end. 

Just long enough: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a tab at the end.	
Just too long: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a tab at the end.	
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a tab at the end.	
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with a tab at the end.	

Just long enough: xxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut at the end.ä
Just too long: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut at the end.ä
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut at the end.ä
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut at the end.ä

Just long enough This is a line with an umlaut and a space at the end.ä 
Just too long: xx This is a line with an umlaut and a space at the end.ä 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut and a space at the end.ä 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut and a space at the end.ä 

Just long enough:  This is a line with an umlaut and a tab at the end.ä	
Just too long: xxxx This is a line with an umlaut and a tab at the end.ä	
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut and a tab at the end.ä	
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx This is a line with an umlaut and a tab at the end.ä	

This line has a space at the end and ends the buffer 